>> Kevin Powell: So
with all of those animations,
all these other things that we've done,
it's all really cool.
And we can do a lot of really nice user
experience things with all of these.
Again, some of these
are progressive enhancements, so
it might not work for everybody.
But at least as the browsers
are improving and time goes on, more and
more people get access to those.
Another thing that you can do to help
enhance your user experience is through
some other customizations.
And I wanted to talk a lot about
customizations from all those custom
properties we set up
from the very beginning.
And there's two different ways we can look
at how those customizations can benefit.
One of them is so you can just turn
these things into new things and
have fun with it and customize it for
new projects and take pieces from this and
do more with them.
The other one is for
improving the user experience,
potentially by bringing in
other themes to your site.
This site is a dark theme.
I'm a fan of dark themes, and I'm also
gonna take this fade-in animation off,
cuz I don't think it helps
the user experience right now.
But dark themes,
a lot of people love them.
A lot of people,
especially long-form websites,
they actually prefer light themes.
So I wanna look at how we can
leverage everything we've
done to easily be able just
to do some quick theming.
A proper light theme would require
a little bit more than what we're gonna do
in the time we have now, but
I think it'll just highlight
how easy it is to make changes.
And this could also be changes at a
different level as well where if you don't
like the color theme that this website
has and you wanna just adjust it,
it's gonna be very easy to do
those types of things as well.
So if we come into our base layer here,
where we had all of those
custom properties set up,
this is really where the payoff comes from
having these tokens that we have here.
And then having the more semantic
properties we have down here,
cuz I don't wanna necessarily touch these.
I think these are great,
they're gonna do their job.
The only limitation we have right now is
we don't really have enough colors for
a light theme.
So I'm actually gonna copy these and
paste them right here, and come in and
just change these really fast,
100, 200, 300, 400 and we don't
need another 5 just to give myself some
more tokens to be able to work with.
And this is where having
these tokens at the top and
then we use them in
different ways later on.
This is also why I like HSL, cuz with HSL,
I can just tweak these values really easy.
So maybe this is a 90%.
And again, you'd wanna do a little
bit more of a careful job here and
come up with something that works.
I'm just eyeballing and throwing some
numbers at a board right now, and
we'll see what it actually will look like.
So having these light browns and
the dark browns in
there will enable me now to be able
to come in with a custom theme.
And we can just use a media query for
this.
So let's come down here where we
have this version of everything,
which is our default theme,
and I'm gonna include it.
I'll do it after the colors and before.
No, I'll just do it at the bottom,
cuz it'll break the syntax highlighting,
if not.
So @media and
we can do we prefers-color-scheme.
And because my system is set to dark,
I'm gonna put this to light.
We already created the dark theme,
the default is the dark theme.
So we're gonna say light right there.
So it just depends on the operating
system level at this point.
If the operating system
is set to a light theme,
they'll get the light
colors we're gonna create.
If it's set to the dark theme, they get
the default ones we've already done.
The one thing I will caveat with this
is if you're going to actually create
a separate theme,
the media query is probably not enough,
cuz a lot of people like dark themes, but
prefer reading long form in light themes.
So having a manual toggle to go back and
forth between them is probably something
you'd wanna do, simple button toggle
somewhere on your site that you could add,
just a JavaScript class.
Then that goes on the body that
toggles between the two, and
it just changes the custom properties
the same way we're changing them now.
And then we could just come in,
let's start.
We'll start with these groups here,
so the background colors.
And this is, again, why I like having
these different levels of things.
Because now in my light theme,
my extra light would just be my brown-100,
my light can be my brown-200,
this can now be my brown-300,
my brown-400 and guess that one
we'd have to play with extra dark.
We'll see what happens,
we'll try it at 500 again.
I'm experimenting a little
bit as I do this.
And I don't really wanna change
my system preferences right now,
cuz that's a pain in the butt.
It takes a little while to do, and then
my whole system goes to a light theme.
So if you open up your dev tools and
you push, not that, Ctrl+Shift+P,
Comd+Shift+P on a Mac,
you can write emulate light.
And let's make that a bit bigger and
try that again so we can see what we did.
Ctrl+Shift+P emulate, and
you can see you can actually emulate
all of these different things.
So I wanna emulate a prefers-color-scheme:
light, and I can see that that's actually
come in, and I have a light
theme on my website right now.
Now, some things are a little bit broken,
but hey, it's working and
we've gotten some of that done.
Part of the problem is the text colors,
but
I've only changed background colors so
far.
So I could also now come up to here,
grab, not those ones,
but grab these right here, copy that,
>> Kevin Powell: Come
down into this media query,
paste those in.
And now this one my text-main would
probably be better off to be my brown-700.
It's a nice dark brown, my high-contrast
would be my clr-brown-900, let's say.
You can see some changing, actually the
brand ones would probably stay the same.
So we can stick with those, and you can
see it's not the nicest site in the world,
but it's looking a little bit better.
There's a few problems that
have come up by doing this,
we'll look at how we can
address what these are.
But you can see quickly we're coming
through and being able to theme things.
I am actually gonna change another one
here, which is that background accent.
I think we'll change it to the var,
>> Kevin Powell: No
maybe that wouldn't work.
Let's just go look fast.
>> Kevin Powell: The dark and the light
naming here still makes sense, but
we'd almost wanna inverse them,
I'm not gonna do it for now.
But it's the type of thing where you
start seeing these different areas, and
we'll look at how we can solve this
problem with the dark text here anyway,
cuz we have the same problem
that's happening here.
But it just shows for
these other areas where we had those other
background colors, we can quickly come in,
we can quickly retheme it,
but we're not changing those other
values that were at the top.
We leave all of those tokens
alone that we created here.
And we're just reusing them
in different ways, and
it opens up the easy way to add all
of the customizations that we need.
Maybe you need a few extra tokens,
cuz you need lighter or
darker colors to work with along the way.
But by having this split,
it means I can change my background color
without changing what brown-900 is.
Cuz if I change brown-900, it could have
big ramifications across my entire site.
Whereas if I'm only changing that
one variable in this one situation,
it just makes it a little
bit easier to work with.
And you get that separation, so
you can have a lot more customization
in how you're doing things.
So to that end, actually, it probably
would be worth coming in here and again,
creating a few more variables.
So I'd encourage you, once we're done
with this course, to come through and
potentially build out one or
multiple other themes, or
just change the default theme.
If you don't feel like doing it, but
trying to leave as many of
these here as they already are.
And then just coming through and
making some changes or
creating new tokens if you need them,
I'm gonna make a lighter one here.
Let's say this is 69, something like that.
So then what I could do is in my
light theme, we get down to there.
The background-accent-main could actually
go to one of the lighter colors,
just so everything gets
a little bit easier to read.
So let me make color
green-300 just as an example.
I don't think that would be the value
I'd wanna keep in this situation,
that's my dark one, actually, right?
Let's just say dark, there we go.
So we can quickly just come in and
make a change to that so
we're improving the readability and
making sure everything works.
And so one of the problems that can
come with these types of things, though,
when you've switched your dark theme and
everything could be looking pretty good.
But you run into these situations where
some of the text you don't actually want
it to be changed.
So you can see here where we can't read
the text in my hero, cuz it has a dark
background image, and the text going
dark could potentially be problematic.
So one way that we can deal
with that is instead of, and
this could be something you
set up from the beginning or
it could just be on a case by case basis,
depending on how you're doing things.
But in, let's go find, or here's the hero
right here where I have the color, and
this is the color of my text
that's coming through right now.
And what we could do is have this as
actually two separate colors that
are possible, and we can do that through
a light-dark, that's right here.
And in the light-dark, it's going to
set the color, if it's the light,
you're giving it two different colors.
You're giving it the color for
the light theme and the dark theme.
So just to highlight how this is working,
cuz it's a little bit hard to see when we
have this high contrast here, but
I could do this as red or blue.
And so in doing that we can
see the red text is coming in.
But if we were using our variables here,
we could either just put
them both to the dark theme.
So it's gonna stick with the dark one, or
I could just enforce color-scheme: dark,
and then it's always going to take
the darker of the colors that are there.
So depending on how you're
setting things up through it,
if you need to enforce different colors,
the combination of using
the light-dark for
your colors could be really beneficial.
And then you could come through and just
pick the right one specific color schemes
in specific places where you
wanna enforce that along the way.
So for your variables as well, instead
of setting them all up the way I've been
doing now with the split ones, your color
set always to the light and dark and
then force different ones, depending
on where you need those to be enforced.
And so let's just fix this, so
it's using our dark color or
our light color, I should say.
In this case, I would actually
probably just come in with the token,
or another option, too,
if you always need it to be a light color,
is just to use the original token.
If we take that off, and I take off that
it's not necessarily the best way to go,
but that's another simpler option too,
where you can just say,
in this one situation,
I just need it to always be a light color.
I don't want it to switch
depending on the different things.
So there's a few different
options you can take,
find the one that you feel works best for
you.
So with all of that, then that's just some
quick customizations that you can make.
But as we looked at with our cards and
with the potential for our buttons and
some other things, you can definitely
make a lot more customizations here.
So you can add more theming to your site,
you can add more pages to the site using
these things that you've been using.
You can use the custom properties from
there to tweak the way things look,
add more custom properties into
everything you've been doing along
the way to tweak things even more,
just to make them even more robust.
And a lot of what we've done here worked
in this project, but it could be things
that you take outta this project and build
into other projects as well, and use them.
For the equal columns,
the auto fill and the auto fit, and
a lot of the other things we've done
the way the custom properties are set up,
those are things that don't just
have to live in isolation here.
And that you don't have to recreate
over and over again, even if they
do require a little bit of tweaking if
you pull them out of this project and
put them into another one.
It can be a really nice template or
base file that you just take to customize,
do what you want with and reuse in
a lot of different ways along the way.